---
title: "Pytorch set-up on the Anaconda "
category:
  - Github
tags:
  - HTML
---
Anaconda has the advantage of providing numerous packages necessary for data science, but it also has another advantage, above all, that packages and environments can be managed independently using Conda. This increases the efficiency of work in a Python environment where numerous package compatibility considerations are required.

### How you can install the Anaconda on Ubuntu

#### Background

I will mention the installation environment on the Ubuntu. Installing the Ubuntu is covered in many other blogs. 

* It is worth noting that there is a lot of discussion about how to partition partitions when using dual booting of the operating system. 

* Otherwise, it is also good to additionally allocate  the swap area.

* For dual booting, the boot loader installation location must be set when ubuntu is newly installed. If the window boot loader is already installed, install it there. However if the boot-loader installation location is not clear, select the 'Ubuntu installation disk' and set the 'Ubuntu disk' as the first boot priority to enable selective dual booting.

  

#### Anaconda installation

```shell
$ wget https://repo.anaconda.com/archive/Anaconda3-2021.05-Linux-x86_64.sh
$ bash Anaconda3-2021.05-Linux-x86_64.sh

# After installation, check the installed version
$ conda --version
```



#### Anaconda environment setting **( Loading a virtual environment )**

As mentioned above, the strength of Anaconda is that it can create a virtual environment on my computer and run a project which has specific settings. If you look at many Github repositories, you can see that **envioronment.yml(or yaml)** and **setup_env.sh** (for example) files are provided.

* From the user's point of view, in the setup shellscript, in general, we need to select the location where the **env** settings will be installed. (opening through any an editor)

* And then run the below code.

  ```shell
  $ bash setup_env.sh
  ```

* And then activate the 'loaded environment' as below.

  ```shell
  $ conda activate LOADED-VIRENV
  #LOADED-VIRENV's name can be checked on the 'setup_env.sh'
  ```

  if you want to deactivate the virtual environment, run the below code.

  ```shell
  $ conda deactivate
  ```

* If you want to check more command related to Anaconda, i recommend this [Site](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/4.6.0/_downloads/52a95608c49671267e40c689e0bc00ca/conda-cheatsheet.pdf)

